docs: add ratify on alibabacloud and add rrsa auth provider into oras… (#130)
ratify-project/ratify-web: docs/quickstarts/ratify-on-alibabacloud.md

With Alibaba Cloud Container Service for Kubernetes (ACK) , you can quickly deploy Gatekeeper and Ratify through visual configuration. With Aliabab cloud Container Registry (ACR), you can store and distribute images with signatures together. You can use Alibaba Cloud Secrets Manager to keep your signing keys and certificates safe, and then use tools like Notation or Cosign to sign your container images with them.

This article walks you through an end-to-end workflow of deploying only signed images on ACK with Ratify.

## Table of Contents

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Prepare the container images in ACR](#prepare-the-container-images-in-acr)
- [Sign ACR image](#sign-acr-image)
    - [Sign with Notation and the keys managed in Alibaba Cloud KMS service](#sign-with-notation-and-the-keys-managed-in-alibaba-cloud-kms-service)
        - [Configuration instructions](#configuration-instructions)
        - [Managing KMS instances](#managing-kms-instances)

>             - [Option 1: Using KMS created and managed keys](#option-1:-using-kms-created-and-managed-keys)

Reviewer: the link isn't rendering, try `#option-1-using-kms-created-and-managed-keys`

Author: Thanks Susan, fix this

3. Encrypt the key material with the wrapping public key, see [Step 3](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/kms/key-management-service/user-guide/import-key-material-into-an-asymmetric-key#p-jar-kxa-iun).
4. Import the key material, see [Step 4](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/kms/key-management-service/user-guide/import-key-material-into-an-asymmetric-key#p-j5c-vp9-9vd).

#### Artifact Signing with Notation CLI

Now that we have completed all the configuration, let's start the artifact signing with Notation CLI. If you haven't downloaded the notation CLI tool, you can get it [here](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation/releases).

```plain
notation sign --id <keyId> --plugin alibabacloud.secretmanager.plugin  <myRegistry>/<myRepo>@<digest> --plugin-config output_cert_dir=<dirPath>
```

| **Parameter** | **Description**                                              |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| id            | Specificed Alibaba Cloud KMS Instance ID                     |

> | plugin-config | Plugin customized parameters, support the following configurations:  output_cert_dir：User can use this parameter to issue hte corresponding x509 certificate based on the specified KMS key during the signing process, and output it as a file to the directory specified in this parameter.  ca_certs：When signing with the imported self-signed key meterial, if you also self issued an x509 certificate with the key, you can use the parameter to specify the filepath of the self-signed certificate. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| plugin-config | Plugin customized parameters, support the following configurations:  output_cert_dir：User can use this parameter to issue the corresponding x509 certificate based on the specified KMS key during the signing process, and output it as a file to the directory specified in this parameter.  ca_certs：When signing with the imported self-signed key material, if you also self issued an x509 certificate with the key, you can use the parameter to specify the filepath of the self-signed certificate. |
```

| alibabacloudAcrConfig.defaultInstanceId        | Default instance ID of the Alibaba Cloud Registry where the target artifacts stored | ``             |
| alibabacloudAcrConfig.acrInstancesConfig       | When images need to be pulled from multiple instances of Aliababa Cloud Registry, the instanceName and instanceId of the instances need to be defined separately in the list, e.g. <br />acrInstancesConfig:<br/>  - instanceName: name1<br/>    instanceId: cri-xxx1<br/>  - instanceName: name2<br/>    instanceId: cri-xxx2 | `[]`           |
| upgradeCRDs.enabled                            | Enable/disable Ratify CRD upgrades as pre-install chart hooks | `true`         |
| featureFlags.RATIFY_CERT_ROTATION              | Enables/disables tls certificate rotation                    | `false`        |
| notationCert                                   | **DEPRECATED** Please switch to `notationCerts` to specify an array of verification certificates. Public certificate/certificate chain used to create inline certstore used by Notation verifier. |                |

![ratify-alibabacloud-marketplace](../imgs/ratify-alibabacloud-marketplace.png)

### Deploy RatifyVerification policy instance

> 1. Select **Security -> Policy Govenance** in the left navigation bar, and refer to the [Work with the policy governance feature](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/ack/ack-managed-and-ack-dedicated/security-and-compliance/configure-and-enforce-ack-pod-security-policies#88777ff753f72) to deploy the policy RatifyVerification, which is based on Gatekeeper's external data mechanism to invoke the Ratify as service provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select **Security -> Policy Governance** in the left navigation bar, and refer to the [Work with the policy governance feature](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/ack/ack-managed-and-ack-dedicated/security-and-compliance/configure-and-enforce-ack-pod-security-policies#88777ff753f72) to deploy the policy RatifyVerification, which is based on Gatekeeper's external data mechanism to invoke the Ratify as service provider.
```

# Ratify on Alibaba Cloud

> This guide will explain how to get up and running with Ratify on Alibaba Cloud using ACK and ACR. This will involve setting up necessary Alibaba Cloud resources, installing necessary components, and configuring them properly. Once everything is set up we will walk through a simple scenario of verifying the signature on a container image at deployment time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This guide will explain how to get up and running with Ratify on Alibaba Cloud using Alibaba Cloud Container Service for Kubernetes (ACK) and Aliabab cloud Container Registry (ACR). This will involve setting up necessary Alibaba Cloud resources, installing necessary components, and configuring them properly. Once everything is set up we will walk through a simple scenario of verifying the signature on a container image at deployment time.
```

Reviewer 3: @DahuK  This is the first time the acronym ACR and ACK appears, so it is suggested to add the full name for ACR and ACK, and remove the full name in the second paragraph.

> With Alibaba Cloud Container Service for Kubernetes (ACK) , you can quickly deploy Gatekeeper and Ratify through visual configuration. With Aliabab cloud Container Registry (ACR), you can store and distribute images with signatures together. You can use Alibaba Cloud Secrets Manager to keep your signing keys and certificates safe, and then use tools like Notation or Cosign to sign your container images with them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With ACK , you can quickly deploy Gatekeeper and Ratify through visual configuration. With ACR, you can store and distribute images with signatures together. You can use Alibaba Cloud Secrets Manager to keep your signing keys and certificates safe, and then use tools like Notation or Cosign to sign your container images with them.
```

        * [Managing KMS instances](#managing-kms-instances)
            * [Option 1: Using KMS created and managed keys](#option-1:-using-kms-created-and-managed-keys)
            * [Option 2: Use self-signed and imported key material](#option-2:-use-self-signed-and-imported-key-material)
        * [Artifact Signing with Notation CLI](#artifact-signing-with-notation-cli)
* [Install Ratify & Gatekeeper](#install-ratify-&-gatekeeper)
    * [Prerequisites](#second-prerequisites)
    * [Install Ratify](#install-ratify)
    * [Deploy RatifyVerification policy instance](#deploy-ratifyVerification-policy-instance)

* [Configure Ratify](#configure-ratify)
    * [Configuring a verifier to validate artifact's Notation signature](#configuring-a-verifier-to-validate-artifact's-notation-signature)
    * [KeyManagementProvider Configuration](#keymanagementprovider-configuration)
    * [Pulling ACR private image signature manifest with RRSA](#pulling-acr-private-image-signature-manifest-with-rrsa)

* [Deploying application in an ACK cluster with a specified image](#deploying-application-in-an-ack-cluster-with-a-specified-image)

## Prerequisites:

> ● Already Created ACK managed/dedicated cluster, version `1.20` or later is required.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Already Created ACK managed/dedicated cluster, version `1.20` or later is required.
```

Reviewer 4: Please use the right markdown syntax for all bullet point list

● Use Alibaba Cloud ACR to manage container images and signatures.

● Use Alibaba Cloud  KMS service to manage signing keys and certificates.

● Install and use Notation for image signing.

● Already install and configure the [aliyun](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/cli/installation-guide) CLI tools that are relied upon in documents such as .

● Already install and use [Notation CL](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation/releases)I plug-in for image signing.

● Already install [notation-alibabacloud-secret-manager](https://github.com/AliyunContainerService/notation-alibabacloud-secret-manager/releases) plug-in, which could sign the specified image with the keys managed in Alibaba Cloud Secrets Manager based on the plug-in specification of the Notation community.

## Prepare the container images in ACR:

- [Create an ACR Enterprise Edition instance](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/acr/user-guide/create-a-container-registry-enterprise-edition-instance)
- You can [use an ACR EE instance to build an image](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/acr/user-guide/build-images-on-container-registry-enterprise-edition-instances)

> - The ACR EE instance supports the OCI v1.1.0 Image and Distribution specification, and you can use CLI tools such as ORSA to manage and distribute OCI artifacts such as image signatures and SBOMs, for details, please refer to [Using OCI v1.1.0 Specification to Manage and Associate Container Images and Their Derivative Artifacts](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/acr/use-cases/operating-with-oci-image-and-distribution-specification-v1-1-0 )

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The ACR EE instance supports the OCI v1.1.0 Image and Distribution specification, and you can use CLI tools such as ORAS to manage and distribute OCI artifacts such as image signatures and SBOMs, for details, please refer to [Using OCI v1.1.0 Specification to Manage and Associate Container Images and Their Derivative Artifacts](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/acr/use-cases/operating-with-oci-image-and-distribution-specification-v1-1-0 )
```

- You have configured access control on the proprietary network or public network for connecting to the ACR EE instance, for details, please refer to [Configure network access control](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/acr/user-guide/configure-network-access-control).
- You have obtained the password for logging to the ACR EE instance. You can reset it if you forget or lose your password, for details, please refer to [Configure access credentials for a Container Registry Enterprise Edition instance](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/acr/user-guide/configure-access-credentials).

> ## Sign ACR image：

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Sign ACR images
```

### Sign with Notation and the keys managed in Alibaba Cloud KMS service

> Alibaba Cloud Key Management Service (KMS) is a comprehensive on-cloud data encryption solution that includes KMS and Cloud Hardware Security Module. This solution helps solve concerns such as data security, key security, key management, and secret management. User can sign the specific image with the keys and certificates in [Alibaba Cloud Secrets Manager](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/kms/key-management-service/support/overview-6) based on the plug-in specification of the Notation community.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Alibaba Cloud Key Management Service (KMS) is a comprehensive on-cloud data encryption solution that includes KMS and Cloud Hardware Security Module. This solution helps solve concerns such as data security, key security, key management, and secret management. User can sign the specific image with the keys and certificates in [Alibaba Cloud Secrets Manager](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/kms/key-management-service/support/overview-6) based on the [plugin specification](https://github.com/notaryproject/specifications/blob/v1.1.0/specs/plugin-extensibility.md) of the Notary Project community.
```

> #### Configuration instructions：

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Configuration instructions
```

| **Env**                              | **Description**                                              |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| ALIBABA_CLOUD_ACCESS_KEY_ID          | Alibaba Cloud Account Access Key ID                          |
| ALIBABA_CLOUD_ACCESS_KEY_SECRET      | Alibaba Cloud Account Secret Access Key                      |
| ALIBABA_CLOUD_KMS_INSTANCE_ENDPOINT  | VPC Endpoint of the Dedicated KMS Instance, for example, kst-hzxxxxxxxxxx.cryptoservice.kms.aliyuncs.com |
| ALIBABA_CLOUD_KMS_CLIENTKEY_FILEPATH | Local File Path of the ClientKey Credential for the Dedicated KMS Instance Application Access Point (AAP) |
| ALIBABA_CLOUD_KMS_PASSWORD           | Password for the Dedicated KMS Instance Application Access Point (AAP) |
| ALIBABA_CLOUD_KMS_CA_FILEPATH        | Local Path of the CA Certificate for the Dedicated KMS Instance |

> *Note: The notation-alibabacloud-secret-manager plugin supports multiple Credentials configuration methods. Please refer to* [*credentials*](https://aliyuncontainerservice.github.io/ack-ram-tool/#credentials) *for more configuration options.*

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> Note: The notation-alibabacloud-secret-manager plugin supports multiple credentials configuration methods. Please refer to [credentials](https://aliyuncontainerservice.github.io/ack-ram-tool/#credentials) for more configuration options.
```

#### Managing KMS instances

User can enable and manage KMS instances from the console, please refer to the [Prerequisites](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/kms/key-management-service/user-guide/manage-kms-instances#section-yal-idg-c4y) when enabling a KMS instance

> The plugin supports signing with two types of keys: those created and managed using KMS instances, and those self-signed and imported into KMS instances.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The plugin supports signing with two types of keys: 
- Keys are created and managed by KMS instances
- Keys are self-signed and imported to KMS instances.
```

```plain
notation sign --id <keyId> --plugin alibabacloud.secretmanager.plugin $REGISTRY/$REPO:$TAG --plugin-config output_cert_dir=<dirPath>
```

##### Option 2: Use self-signed and imported key material

Users can use self-signed keys and import key material into KMS instance management. As a quick start, this tutorial uses openssl to generate private keys and certificates

1. Create asymmetric keys in the KMS console, see [Step 1](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/kms/key-management-service/user-guide/import-key-material-into-an-asymmetric-key#p-qcf-3d4-pel).
2. Download a wrapping public key and an import token, see [Step 2](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/kms/key-management-service/user-guide/import-key-material-into-an-asymmetric-key#p-f9p-n7u-88m).
3. Encrypt the key material with the wrapping public key, see [Step 3](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/kms/key-management-service/user-guide/import-key-material-into-an-asymmetric-key#p-jar-kxa-iun).
4. Import the key material, see [Step 4](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/kms/key-management-service/user-guide/import-key-material-into-an-asymmetric-key#p-j5c-vp9-9vd).

#### Artifact Signing with Notation CLI

> Now that we have completed all the configuration, let's start the artifact signing with Notation CLI. If you haven't downloaded the notation CLI tool, you can get it [here](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation/releases).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now that we have completed all the configuration, let's start the artifact signing with Notation CLI. If you haven't downloaded the Notation CLI tool, you can get it [here](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation/releases).
```

```plain

> notation sign --id <keyId> --plugin alibabacloud.secretmanager.plugin  <myRegistry>/<myRepo>@<digest> --plugin-config output_cert_dir=<dirPath>

Reviewer 3: Is the plugin config correct for an imported key?

```

| **Parameter** | **Description**                                              |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| id            | Specificed Alibaba Cloud KMS Instance ID                     |
| plugin-config | Plugin customized parameters, support the following configurations:  output_cert_dir：User can use this parameter to issue hte corresponding x509 certificate based on the specified KMS key during the signing process, and output it as a file to the directory specified in this parameter.  ca_certs：When signing with the imported self-signed key meterial, if you also self issued an x509 certificate with the key, you can use the parameter to specify the filepath of the self-signed certificate. |

> ## Install Ratify & Gatekeeper：

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Install Ratify & Gatekeeper
```

> ### Prerequisites <a id="second-prerequisites"></a>:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Prerequisites
```

- Already Created ACK managed/dedicated cluster, version `1.20` or later is required.
- Gatekeeper-based policy governance is enabled in the cluster, refer to [Install or upgrade policy governance components](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/ack/ack-managed-and-ack-dedicated/security-and-compliance/configure-and-enforce-ack-pod-security-policies#section-3k8-sl8-fi0)

> ### Install Ratify：

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Install Ratify
```

| alibabacloudAcrConfig.defaultInstanceId        | Default instance ID of the Alibaba Cloud Registry where the target artifacts stored | ``             |
| alibabacloudAcrConfig.acrInstancesConfig       | When images need to be pulled from multiple instances of Aliababa Cloud Registry, the instanceName and instanceId of the instances need to be defined separately in the list, e.g. <br />acrInstancesConfig:<br/>  - instanceName: name1<br/>    instanceId: cri-xxx1<br/>  - instanceName: name2<br/>    instanceId: cri-xxx2 | `[]`           |
| upgradeCRDs.enabled                            | Enable/disable Ratify CRD upgrades as pre-install chart hooks | `true`         |
| featureFlags.RATIFY_CERT_ROTATION              | Enables/disables tls certificate rotation                    | `false`        |
| notationCert                                   | **DEPRECATED** Please switch to `notationCerts` to specify an array of verification certificates. Public certificate/certificate chain used to create inline certstore used by Notation verifier. |                |

![ratify-alibabacloud-marketplace](../imgs/ratify-alibabacloud-marketplace.png)

> ### Deploy RatifyVerification policy instance：

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Deploy RatifyVerification policy instance
```

1. Select **Security -> Policy Govenance** in the left navigation bar, and refer to the [Work with the policy governance feature](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/ack/ack-managed-and-ack-dedicated/security-and-compliance/configure-and-enforce-ack-pod-security-policies#88777ff753f72) to deploy the policy RatifyVerification, which is based on Gatekeeper's external data mechanism to invoke the Ratify as service provider.
2. Run the following kubectl command to see if the constrainttemplate and constraint instances corresponding to the Gatekeeper policy have been deployed in the cluster, or you can view the current status of the RatifyVerification policy on the Policy Governance page of the console:

```plain
kubectl get constrainttemplate ratifyverification

kubectl get constraint | grep ratify-constraint
```

![alibabacloud-policy-governance](../imgs/alibabacloud-policy-governance.png)

> ## Configure Ratify：

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Configure Ratify
```

After installing Ratify with the default configuration, the following notation verifier instance will be created in the cluster, and you can configure the specific trustPolicyDoc policy according to the actual usage requirements:

```plain
apiVersion: config.ratify.deislabs.io/v1beta1
kind: Verifier
metadata:
  name: verifier-notation
spec:
  artifactTypes: application/vnd.cncf.notary.signature
  name: notation
  parameters:
    trustPolicyDoc:
      trustPolicies:
      - name: default
        registryScopes:
        - '*'
        signatureVerification:
          level: strict
        trustStores:
        - ca:certs
        trustedIdentities:
        - '*'
      version: "1.0"
    verificationCertStores:
      certs:
      - ratify-notation-inline-cert
  version: 1.0.0
status:
  issuccess: true
```

> ### KeyManagementProvider Configuration：

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### KeyManagementProvider Configuration
```

      "oidc:iss": "<oidc_issuer_url>",
      "oidc:sub": "system:serviceaccount:<namespace>:<service_account>"
    }
  },
  "Effect": "Allow",
  "Principal": {
    "Federated": [
      "<oidc_provider_arn>"
    ]
  }
}
```

3. Authorize the above RAM roles
4. Create a serviceaccount before deploying Ratify, and set the serviceaccount annotations and the namespace labels where Ratify will be deployed:

```plain
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: ratify  #Specify the name of the namespace
  labels:
    pod-identity.alibabacloud.com/injection: 'on'

---
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: ratify-sa    #Specify the name of the serviceaccount
  namespace: ratify     #Specify the name of the namespace
  annotations:
    pod-identity.alibabacloud.com/role-name: ratify-role #The RAM Role name created in step 2

---
```

5. After deploying Ratify, you can check whether the Env in the Pod instance template of Ratify has been injected with the specified environment variables: `ALIBABA_CLOUD_ROLE_ARN`, `ALIBABA_CLOUD_OIDC_PROVIDER_ARN` and `ALIBABABA_CLOUD_OIDC_TOKEN_FILE`.

## Deploying application in an ACK cluster with a specified image

> After completing the above deployment and configuration, we can try to deploy the application workload in the cluster. When deploying a legally signed image, you can verify that the workload was successfully deployed to the target cluster. When deploying a workload that does not contain a signed image, you can check if Ratify has successfully intercepted the deployment though kubectl command, and you can also view more in the Ratify pod logs.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
After completing the above deployment and configuration, try to deploy the application in the cluster. When deploying a signed image, the workload was verified successfully and deployed to the target cluster. When deploying an unsigned image, you can check if Ratify has denied the deployment. You can view the Ratify pod logs for details.
```
